Hello and welcome.
My name's Heather McCallum 
and I'm one of the **potters**^[thợ gốm] who work here at Edelman **Pottery**^[xưởng gốm; nghề làm gốm].
Before we go into the workshop,
I just want to say a bit about the **craft of pottery**^[nghề gốm thủ công].
Then we'll have a look at the equipment 
and you can try making a pot of your own.
Like many people,
I'm sure you know that pottery as an **art form**^[loại hình nghệ thuật] 
is **tens of thousands of**^[hàng chục ngàn] years old.
And we know this
because it **stands the test of time**^[trường tồn với thời gian].
Things like baskets and pictures 
don't **survive**^[tồn tại nguyên vẹn, không bị phá hủy hoặc mục nát qua thời gian] in the earth in the same way that pots do.
And even if ancient pots are found in small pieces, 
they still provide a lot of information about the past.
There's no doubt that pottery has given **archaeologists**^[nhà khảo cổ học] 
a **fascinating**^[thú vị] **insight**^[cái nhìn sâu sắc] into how ancient humans lived.
The shape of an **artefact**^[hiện vật] may have been lost, 
but archaeologists can tell whether the pots were for, **say**^[Ví dụ như / Giả sử như (tương đương với for example hoặc for instance)], storage 
or cooking 
by examining the **impressions**^[dấu vết] on the clay, the **scratches**^[vết trầy xước] from tools.
And the clay itself 
can **reveal**^[tiết lộ] where the pots came from.
When I ask people why they want to take a pottery class with me,
they sometimes talk about these things.
Like our ancestors,
they hope that something they create
will also last longer than they do.
That their **work**^[tác phẩm], whether it is good or not, 
might say something about **humanity**^[loài người] many years after their death.
Of course, you will all have your own reasons for coming here.
**As far as I'm concerned**^[I think, In my opinion], 
what I love most is the **concentration**^[sự tập trung] you need to make a good pot.
That focus takes you away from the stresses of everyday life.
If you're elderly,
it's also good exercise for hands and **wrists**^[cổ tay] 
and helps with **arthritis**^[viêm khớp].
And of course, it's a fun activity for children, 
because it's so messy.
Here at Edelman Pottery, 
we show you some of the basic pottery techniques 
so that you can use these to create whatever you wish.
A gift for a friend, perhaps.
Like nearly everyone who comes here, 
I'm sure this is the first time you will have tried the art,
so we'll keep things simple today.
Now, before we move on, 
can I just say a word about what you're wearing?
As we said in our email, 
please remove any watches, **necklaces**^[vòng cổ], etc., 
and put them somewhere safe.
If you have long hair, 
do tie it back now.
We'll provide **aprons**^[tạp dề] later, 
but I trust your clothes are old but comfortable, 
not your favourite T-shirt or jeans.

So now we're in the workshop.
Have a look around.
There's a lot **going on**^[đang diễn ra (happening)].
To make pottery that will last, 
you need a **potter's wheel**^[bàn xoay gốm], 
a **kiln**^[lò nung (gốm, gạch...)], 
which is basically a very hot oven where you fire the pottery, 
and some tools.
So first, the kiln.
If you look over in the far corner, you'll see one of ours.
Since their invention, kilns have changed very little, 
though in the past 20 years 
a lot of **progress**^[bước tiến] has been made in temperature control.
Basically, a kiln removes the water from clay 
at temperatures of around 1,000 degrees Celsius.
This allows anything you've made 
to set permanently in shape.
It's a pretty ugly, heavy object 
that's hard to keep in a house or flat,
so most people don't have one.

You may think, 
can't I use my oven?
Well, that's possible, 
but **domestic**^[dân dụng] ovens don't really get hot enough,
and eventually the clay will **crack**^[rạn nứt] and **fall apart**^[rơi rụng rời rạc ra từng mảnh, vỡ vụn, rã đám].
Some people fire pottery
in a **fire pit**^[hố lửa] outside, 
but **bear in mind**^[Remember (Hãy mang cái thông tin này đặt vào trong tâm trí của bạn và giữ chặt nó ở đó)] 
that can be dangerous.
You also need to know about safety procedures for kilns 
as they release **toxic compounds**^[hợp chất độc hại] into the air.
Every potter needs a potter's wheel.
This machine is used to shape the clay into an object 
with circular walls or sides, 
such as a bowl.
Its invention 
revolutionised the pottery industry, 
allowing multiple items to be produced in a day.
Lastly, 
there are a number of different tools that potters use,
depending on what they want to make.
When you start, 
your hands can make all kinds of shapes and curves without **relying on**^[dựa vào] a sculpting tool.
However, there are some basic tools that you will need to handle the clay on the wheel.
Some look very strange 
and have even **odder names**^[tên kỳ cục] 
that you may find hard to remember.
Rather than go through them all now, 
I'll just name a few tools **as we go along**^[khi chúng ta tiến hành].
We can provide these,
and I wouldn't recommend spending money on them yet.
So, let's try making a pot of your own.